# E-Commerce Sales Interactive Power BI Dashboard

### Project Overview
This project aims to provide insights into the sales performance of Amazon for the years 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. So that, Amazon can understand their customers and increase sales in the next years. 




![Store_Dashboard] 
[Amazon  Superstore Sales Dashboard.pdf](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/16915214/Amazon.Superstore.Sales.Dashboard.pdf)

### Data Sources
Sales Data: The primary dataset used for this analysis is the "Sales Data.xlsx" file, containing detailed information about each sale made by the Amazon.
### Tools
- Power BI - Data Cleaning, Data Calculation, Data Analysis and Dashboard Creation
  
### Data Cleaning/ Preparation
In the initial data preparation phase, performed the following tasks:
1. Data loading and inspection
2. Leveraged Power Query Editor, DAX for Extract, Tranform, Load (ETL)
   - Data Transform - made first row as headers in two sheets (Returns, People)
   - Data Extraction - added three new columns (Delivery Days, Year, Return 1)
  
     - Delivery Days = ([Ship date - Order date]) ---> using custom column
     - Year = Date.Year([order date]) ---> using custom column
     -  Return 1 = If returns equals to Yes then 1 ---> using conditional colum
       
   


### Data Analysis
1. Used pie and donought chart to  visually analyse the data as per segment and coutries
2. Created Bar charts to find out the top 5 profit and loss making products
3. Used year slicer to filter the data based on year selection (2012,2013,2014,2015)
4. To visually analyze the sales as per country at a quick glance incorporated world map

### Results/ Findings

The analysis results are summarized as follows:
- Maximum sale segment is consumer (~51.48%) followed by corporate (~30%) and home office (~18%)
- Asia Pacific (~32%), Europe (~26%), USCA (~19%) are the top 3 buying countries
- Total sales amount generated by Amazon is $12.64 miilion
- It takes on average 4 days to deliver the product to buyer.

### Recommendations
Based on the analysis, recommend the following actions:
  -  Make a stratagy to cut down your time taken for delivery
  -  Aim for consumer and corporate segments in the Asia Pacific region to maximize sales.
  - To tackle with loss making products, either develop a strategy or avoid selling these items.
  - Give special offers/coupons to your top 10 consumers. So that they can do mouth publicity for Amazon.

    
